=== Welcome to OpenLIS!

OpenLIS is an Open Source Laboratory Management Interface. Active development
has started in August 2009; new features, enhancements, and updates appear
on daily basis.

Here are the steps to get OpenLIS up and running on your system.

=== System Requirements

* Ruby v1.8.6, v1.8.7, or v1.9.1
* Ruby on Rails v2.3.2
* MySQL v4.1.1 or later (v5+ is recommended) or SQLite v3.4 or later
* ImageMagick (optional, only if you would like to use avatars)
* Browsers: FireFox and Safari (IE is not fully supported yet)

=== Downloads

* Git source code repository: git://github.com/jlduran/openlis.git
* .zip or .tgz archives: http://github.com/jlduran/openlis/downloads

=== Resources

* Home page: http://www.labtecsa.com/openlis
* Project page: http://github.com/jlduran/openlis/tree/master
* Features and bugs: http://openlis.lighthouseapp.com

=== Setting Up The Database

OpenLIS supports MySQL and SQLite databases. The source code comes with
two sample database configuration files: +config+/+database+.+mysql+.+yml+
for MySQL and +config+/+database+.+sqlite+.+yml+ for SQLite. Based on your choice
of the database create the actual database configuration file, for example:

   $ cp config/database.mysql.yml config/database.yml

Edit config/database.yml and specify database names and authentication
details. Once you have database configuration file ready run rake to create
the database:

   $ rake db:create

=== Setting Up The Application

The next step is to load default OpenLIS settings, such as default tests,
default colors, etc. This is done by running the following rake task:

   $ rake lis:setup


=== Loading Demo Data

You can test drive OpenLIS by loading sample records that are generated
on the fly to mimic the actual use:

   $ rake lis:demo:load

Among other things the demo generator creates 6 sample user records with the
following usernames: +admin+, +phlebotomy+, +tech+, +doctor+, +client+ and 
+patient+. You can login with any of these names using the name as password.

You can reset the database and reload demo data at any time by using:

   $ rake lis:demo:reload


=== Running The App

Now you should be able to launch the Rails server and point your web browser
to http://localhost:3000

   $ ./script/server


=== For Developers

OpenLIS can be customized by trapping callback hooks and extended by adding
plugins. Please see http://github.com/jlduran/openlis/tree/master for sample 
source code demonstrating the concepts.


=== License

Copyright (c) 2009-2010 by Labtec S.A. All rights reserved.

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GNU Affero General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or (at your
option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but WITHOUT
ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

See LICENSE file for more details.
